README.md, before:

# GPU Kernels for GaussTransform

GaussTransform is used as a cost function to determine the distance between two Gaussian 
Mixture Models.


## Example usage

The code currently consists of a single class which can be instantiated to allocate
resources on the GPU. The number you pass to the constructor is the largest possible
size of the model you wish to compute on (this is simply used for memmory allocations).

The GPUGaussTransform object performs expensive memory allocations and deallocations and
as such it should be reused for as many calls to ``compute()`` as possible.

The GPU code currently assumes double precision and 2 dimensional coordinates for the models.

```
    #include "gausstransform.h"

    //instantiate GPUGaussTransform object
    GPUGaussTransform gpu_gt(m);

    //call the cost function
    double cost = gpu_gt.compute(A, B, m, n, scale, grad);

```

The ``compute()`` function will take care of transferring the data to the GPU, calling 
the GPU functions, as well as
copying the results back from the GPU to host memory. It will only copy the actual size of
A and B, so there is no real performance drawback from overestimating the largest possible
size when creating GPUGaussTransform.
 
The destructor of GPUGaussTransform guarantees that GPU resources are freed when
the computations on the GPU have finished and the GPUGaussTransform instance is deleted.


## Installation

### CUDA

The GPU code requires a CUDA-capable GPU as well as the CUDA toolkit to be installed. Please see
Nvidia's website for installation fo the CUDA toolkit (https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads).

### CUB Library

The GPU code currently has one dependency, which is the CUB library. You can download it from:
https://nvlabs.github.io/cub/index.html
The easiest way to install CUB is to add the directory where you unpack CUB to your
``$CPATH`` environment variable.

### Python 3

The tests for the GPU code and several of the C functions are written in Python, to run these a
Python 3 installation is required. The easiest way to get this is using
[Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html).

On Linux systems one could type the following commands to download and install Python 3 using Miniconda:
```
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

All the required Python packages can be installed using the following command, before you run it
make sure that you have CUDA installed:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The tests can be run using ``nose``, for example by typing the following in the top-level or test
directory:
```
nosetests -v
```

### Building the code

A Makefile is provided that can be used to produce a static library file. 
Simply type ``make`` in the top-level directory and the static library will be produced in the `bin/` directory.

Note that, the CUDA path inside the Makefile should be changed to match your local configuration.

The static library can be used to link the code to your application, don't forget to also link the CUDA runtime library.

Commit message:

dynamic library instead of static

README.md, after:

# GPU Kernels for GaussTransform

GaussTransform is used as a cost function to determine the distance between two Gaussian 
Mixture Models.


## Example usage

The code currently consists of a single class which can be instantiated to allocate
resources on the GPU. The number you pass to the constructor is the largest possible
size of the model you wish to compute on (this is simply used for memmory allocations).

The GPUGaussTransform object performs expensive memory allocations and deallocations and
as such it should be reused for as many calls to ``compute()`` as possible.

The GPU code currently assumes double precision and 2 dimensional coordinates for the models.

```
    #include "gausstransform.h"

    //instantiate GPUGaussTransform object
    GPUGaussTransform gpu_gt(m);

    //call the cost function
    double cost = gpu_gt.compute(A, B, m, n, scale, grad);

```

The ``compute()`` function will take care of transferring the data to the GPU, calling 
the GPU functions, as well as
copying the results back from the GPU to host memory. It will only copy the actual size of
A and B, so there is no real performance drawback from overestimating the largest possible
size when creating GPUGaussTransform.
 
The destructor of GPUGaussTransform guarantees that GPU resources are freed when
the computations on the GPU have finished and the GPUGaussTransform instance is deleted.


## Installation

### CUDA

The GPU code requires a CUDA-capable GPU as well as the CUDA toolkit to be installed. Please see
Nvidia's website for installation fo the CUDA toolkit (https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads).

### CUB Library

The GPU code currently has one dependency, which is the CUB library. You can download it from:
https://nvlabs.github.io/cub/index.html
The easiest way to install CUB is to add the directory where you unpack CUB to your
``$CPATH`` environment variable.

### Python 3

The tests for the GPU code and several of the C functions are written in Python, to run these a
Python 3 installation is required. The easiest way to get this is using
[Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html).

On Linux systems one could type the following commands to download and install Python 3 using Miniconda:
```
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

All the required Python packages can be installed using the following command, before you run it
make sure that you have CUDA installed:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The tests can be run using ``nose``, for example by typing the following in the top-level or test
directory:
```
nosetests -v
```

### Building the code

A Makefile is provided that can be used to produce a dynamic library.
Simply type ``make`` in the top-level directory and the static library will be produced in the `bin/` directory.

Note that, the CUDA path inside the Makefile should be changed to match your local configuration.

The dynamic library can be used to link the code to your application, don't forget to also link the CUDA runtime library.
This means adding ``-L/path/to/cuda/lib64/ -lcudart`` to the compiler command when linking the application.
